In association with the International Water Association.
Water Research has an open access companion journal Water Research X, sharing the same aims and scope and rigorous peer review.

Water Research publishes refereed, original research papers on all aspects of the science and technology of the anthropogenic water cycle, water quality, and its management worldwide. A broad outline of the journal's scope includes:

Treatment processes for water and wastewaters (municipal, agricultural, industrial, and on-site treatment), including resource recovery and residuals management;

Urban hydrology including sewer systems, stormwater management, and green infrastructure;

Drinking water treatment and distribution;

Potable and non-potable water reuse;

Sanitation, public health, and risk assessment;

Anaerobic digestion, solid and hazardous waste management, including source characterization and the effects and control of leachates and gaseous emissions;

Contaminants (chemical, microbial, anthropogenic particles such as nanoparticles or microplastics) and related water quality sensing, monitoring, fate, and assessment;

Anthropogenic impacts on inland, tidal, coastal and urban waters, focusing on surface and ground waters, and point and non-point sources of pollution;

Environmental restoration, linked to surface water, groundwater and groundwater remediation;

Analysis of the interfaces between sediments and water, and between water and atmosphere, focusing specifically on anthropogenic impacts;

Mathematical modelling, systems analysis, machine learning, and beneficial use of big data related to the anthropogenic water cycle;

Socio-economic, policy, and regulations studies.

Water Research is an interdisciplinary journal with an applied edge. This means that papers that go into too many details of one of the supporting disciplines (such as chemistry, toxicology, microbiology, material sciences, etc.) without making a good link with water research in general may be rejected up-front. More information on types of manuscripts that are not suitable for Water Research are discussed in an editorial available here.

Audience: Biologists, chemical engineers, chemists, civil engineers, environmental engineers, limnologists, and microbiologists.

Note that Water Research/Water Research X do not do pre-submission evaluations. Please carefully review the journal scope and previous issues of the journals to assess the fit of your manuscript. The handling editor will then evaluate suitability of your full manuscript.

Elsevier and IWA also collaborate on another specialist title which authors are welcome to submit to:

The open access Water Resources and Industry focuses on the role that industry plays in the exploitation, management and treatment of water resources.